README.md, before:

# AnyOCR-GPT4V
This repo contains the wrapper library and sample app to show the possibility of using GPT-4 with Vision model to recognize and understand text data from any images. You can imagine to use it to develop an OCR app for extracting textual data from any images.

Mentioned wrapper library is `OCRClient.py`. And you can see how to use it in the sample app or `exp_ocr_client.py`

## AnyOCR Console App

AnyOCR Console App is a provided Python application that shows the possibility to use the `OCRClient.py` wrapper library in order to recognize text from any image using OpenAI's GPT-4 with Vision model (hosted on Azure OpenAI Service) and Azure AI Vision. It provides a convenient way to extract text from images and perform various OCR-related tasks.

Features:

- Recognize text from images using OpenAI's GPT-4 with Vision model and Azure AI Vision
- Generate prompt templates to customize text recognition and understanding of specific image category  
- Support for streaming responses
- Estimate token usage and cost, only possible for non-streaming response

### Prerequisites

Before running the AnyOCR Console App, make sure you have the following:

- Latest Python 3.x installed
- Required Python packages installed (see `requirements.txt`)  
- Azure OpenAI Services credentials
- Azure AI Vision API credentials

### Setup  

1. Clone the repository:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/andriyadi/AnyOCR-GPT4V.git
   ```

2. Install the required Python packages:

   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. You MUST create a `.env` file in the project root directory and provide the following values:

   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
   AZURE_OPENAI_BASE_URL="your-azure-openai-base-url" 
   AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME="your-azure-openai-deployment-name"
   AZURE_AI_VISION_ENDPOINT="your-azure-ai-vision-endpoint"
   AZURE_AI_VISION_API_KEY="your-azure-ai-vision-api-key"
   ```

   Replace the placeholders with your actual API credentials.

4. (Optional) Modify the constants in `_constants.py` to customize the behavior of the application.

### Usage

To run the AnyOCR Console App, use the following command:
`python anyocr_app.py [options]`

Available options:

- `-u`, `--url`: URL or file path of the image (default: IMG_SRC from `_constants.py`)
- `-p`, `--prompt`: Path to the prompt file to read  
- `-n`, `--create`: Create a new prompt template (default: False)
- `-o`, `--output`: Output file path of created prompt template
- `-s`, `--stream`: Streaming the response or not (default: USE_STREAMING_RESPONSE from `_constants.py`)
- `-v`, `--vision`: Use Azure AI Vision or not (default: USE_AZURE_VISION from `_constants.py`)
- `-d`, `--debug`: Show debugging messages (default: False)

Example usage:
`python anyocr_app.py -u https://example.com/image.jpg -p prompts/custom_prompt.txt -s True -v True`

### Customization

You can customize the behavior of the AnyOCR Console App by modifying the constants in `_constants.py`. Some notable constants include:

- `USE_AZURE_VISION`: Set to `True` to use Azure AI Vision for OCR (default: `True`)
- `USE_STREAMING_RESPONSE`: Set to `True` to enable streaming responses (default: `False`)
- `PROMPT_GENERATOR_FILEPATH`: Path to the prompt generator file (default: `"prompts/prompt_generator.md"`)
- `USER_MESSAGE`: Default user message for prompting

Feel free to explore and modify other constants to suit your needs.

## AnyOCR API Service

The AnyOCR API Service allows you to perform OCR (Optical Character Recognition) on images using a REST API. It utilizes Azure OpenAI and Azure Computer Vision services to extract text from images and generate structured output based on user-defined prompts.

### Running the API Service

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the project directory.

2. Run the following command to start the AnyOCR API Service:

   ```
   uvicorn anyocr_api:app --reload
   ```

   This will start the API service using Uvicorn, and it will automatically reload the server whenever changes are made to the code.

3. The API service will be accessible at <http://localhost:8000>.

### API Endpoints

The AnyOCR API Service provides the following endpoints:

- POST /recognize: Performs OCR on an image and generates structured JSON output based on the provided body.
- POST /create-template: Creates a new prompt template based on the provided body.

Request

- Method: POST
- URL: /recognize or /create-template
- Headers:

  ```
  Content-Type: application/json
  ```
  
- Body:

  ```
  {
     "img_url": "your-image-url",
     "prompt_file": "your-prompt-file-path",
     "use_ai_vision": false,
     "img_detail_level": "low"
  }
  ```

Response

- Status Code: 200 OK
- Body:
  Either JSON payload as following example when accessing endpoint /recognize:

  ```
  {
     'status': 'OK',
     'data': {
        'tanggal': '11-1-23'
        // ...
     },
     'usage': {
        'completion_tokens': 135,
        'prompt_tokens': 419,
        'total_tokens': 554,
        'est_cost': 0.00824,
        'usd_to_idr': 15797.6,
        'est_cost_idr': 130.17222400000003
     }
  }
  ```

  or plain text explaining the image and resulted prompt when accessing endpoint /create-template:
  
  ```
   The provided image appears to be a photographed document, likely a ... bla bla bla"

   Based on the text data in the image, here is a prompt for an LLM to convert the text into a JSON format:

   "Create a JSON representation of the ... bla bla bla"

   Here is an example of the JSON output for the given image:

   {
   //...
   }

   Please note that...bla bla bla.```

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add CURL command example README.md

README.md, after:

# AnyOCR-GPT4V
This repo contains the wrapper library and sample app to show the possibility of using GPT-4 with Vision model to recognize and understand text data from any images. You can imagine to use it to develop an OCR app for extracting textual data from any images.

Mentioned wrapper library is `OCRClient.py`. And you can see how to use it in the sample app or `exp_ocr_client.py`

## AnyOCR Console App

AnyOCR Console App is a provided Python application that shows the possibility to use the `OCRClient.py` wrapper library in order to recognize text from any image using OpenAI's GPT-4 with Vision model (hosted on Azure OpenAI Service) and Azure AI Vision. It provides a convenient way to extract text from images and perform various OCR-related tasks.

Features:

- Recognize text from images using OpenAI's GPT-4 with Vision model and Azure AI Vision
- Generate prompt templates to customize text recognition and understanding of specific image category  
- Support for streaming responses
- Estimate token usage and cost, only possible for non-streaming response

### Prerequisites

Before running the AnyOCR Console App, make sure you have the following:

- Latest Python 3.x installed
- Required Python packages installed (see `requirements.txt`)  
- Azure OpenAI Services credentials
- Azure AI Vision API credentials

### Setup  

1. Clone the repository:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/andriyadi/AnyOCR-GPT4V.git
   ```

2. Install the required Python packages:

   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. You MUST create a `.env` file in the project root directory and provide the following values:

   ```
   OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
   AZURE_OPENAI_BASE_URL="your-azure-openai-base-url" 
   AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME="your-azure-openai-deployment-name"
   AZURE_AI_VISION_ENDPOINT="your-azure-ai-vision-endpoint"
   AZURE_AI_VISION_API_KEY="your-azure-ai-vision-api-key"
   ```

   Replace the placeholders with your actual API credentials.

4. (Optional) Modify the constants in `_constants.py` to customize the behavior of the application.

### Usage

To run the AnyOCR Console App, use the following command:
`python anyocr_app.py [options]`

Available options:

- `-u`, `--url`: URL or file path of the image (default: IMG_SRC from `_constants.py`)
- `-p`, `--prompt`: Path to the prompt file to read  
- `-n`, `--create`: Create a new prompt template (default: False)
- `-o`, `--output`: Output file path of created prompt template
- `-s`, `--stream`: Streaming the response or not (default: USE_STREAMING_RESPONSE from `_constants.py`)
- `-v`, `--vision`: Use Azure AI Vision or not (default: USE_AZURE_VISION from `_constants.py`)
- `-d`, `--debug`: Show debugging messages (default: False)

Example usage:
`python anyocr_app.py -u https://example.com/image.jpg -p prompts/custom_prompt.txt -s True -v True`

### Customization

You can customize the behavior of the AnyOCR Console App by modifying the constants in `_constants.py`. Some notable constants include:

- `USE_AZURE_VISION`: Set to `True` to use Azure AI Vision for OCR (default: `True`)
- `USE_STREAMING_RESPONSE`: Set to `True` to enable streaming responses (default: `False`)
- `PROMPT_GENERATOR_FILEPATH`: Path to the prompt generator file (default: `"prompts/prompt_generator.md"`)
- `USER_MESSAGE`: Default user message for prompting

Feel free to explore and modify other constants to suit your needs.

## AnyOCR API Service

The AnyOCR API Service allows you to perform OCR on images using a REST API. It utilizes Azure OpenAI GPT-4 with Vision and Azure Computer Vision services to extract text from images and generate structured output based on user-defined prompts.

### Running the API Service

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the project directory.

2. Run the following command to start the AnyOCR API Service:

   ```
   uvicorn anyocr_api:app --reload
   ```

   This will start the API service using Uvicorn, and it will automatically reload the server whenever changes are made to the code.

3. The API service will be accessible at <http://localhost:8000>.

### API Endpoints

The AnyOCR API Service provides the following endpoints:

- POST `/recognize`: Performs OCR on an image and generates structured JSON output based on the provided body.
- POST `/create-template`: Creates a new prompt template based on the provided body.

**Request**

- Method: POST
- URL: /recognize or /create-template
- Headers:

  ```
  Content-Type: application/json
  ```
  
- Body:

  ```
  {
     "img_url": "your-image-url",
     "prompt_file": "your-prompt-file-path",
     "use_ai_vision": false,
     "img_detail_level": "low"
  }
  ```

**Response**

- Status Code: 200 OK
- Body:
  Either JSON payload as following example when accessing endpoint `/recognize`:

  ```
  {
     'status': 'OK',
     'data': {
        'tanggal': '11-1-23'
        // ...
     },
     'usage': {
        'completion_tokens': 135,
        'prompt_tokens': 419,
        'total_tokens': 554,
        'est_cost': 0.00824,
        'usd_to_idr': 15797.6,
        'est_cost_idr': 130.17222400000003
     }
  }
  ```

  or plain text explaining the image and resulted prompt when accessing endpoint `/create-template`:
  
  ```
   The provided image appears to be a photographed document, likely a ...bla bla bla...
   Based on the text data in the image, here is a prompt for an LLM to convert the text into a JSON format:

   "Create a JSON representation of the ...bla bla bla..."

   Here is an example of the JSON output for the given image:
   {
   //...
   }

   Please note that...bla bla bla.```

**CURL**

CURL command example:

```
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8000/recognize' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "img_url": "your-image-url",
  "prompt_file": "your-prompt-file-path",
  "use_ai_vision": false,
  "img_detail_level": "low"
}'
```

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
